---
title: "Numerical modeling of dielectric barrier discharge actuators based on the properties of low-frequency plasmons"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/MM2023
venue: "APS March Meeting 2023"
date: 2023-03-01
location: "Las Vegas, NV"
---

Electrohydrodynamic flow control systems have proven to be among the most promising flow control strategies within previous decades. Several methods are available for efficient evaluation and description of such systems' effects. Yet, due to these systems' critical role in various applications, possible improvements are still being investigated. A new phenomenological model is presented for the simulation of the plasma actuators based on the electrodynamic properties of low-frequency plasmons. The model simulates the plasmonic region as a dispersive medium. This dissipated energy is added to the flow by introducing a high-pressure region, calculated in terms of local body force vectors, requiring the distribution of the electric field and the polarization field. The model determines the electric field for the computation of the body force vector based on the Poisson equation and implements the simplified Lorentz model for the polarization field. To fully explore the performance of the presented model, an experiment has been conducted, comparing the observed effect of plasma actuators on the fluid flow with the results predicted by the model. The model is then validated based on the results of other distinct experiments and exempted numerical models based on the exchanging momentum with the ambient neutrally charged fluid, demonstrating that the model has improved adaptability and self-adjusting capability compared to the available models.
